Docs/improved dashboard docs (#3484)
dlt-hub/dlt: docs/website/docs/general-usage/dashboard.md

---
title: Inspect your pipeline with the pipeline dashboard
description: Open a comprehensive dashboard with information about your pipeline
keywords: [pipeline, schema, data, inspect]
---

# Dashboard: inspect the pipeline

> Once you have run a [pipeline](pipeline.md) locally, you can launch a web app that displays detailed information about your pipeline. This app is built with the [Marimo](https://marimo.io/) Python notebook framework. For this to work, you will need to have the `dlt[hub]` package installed. Check installation instructions ![here](https://dlthub.com/docs/hub/getting-started/installation).

Reviewer: dlt[hub] -> dlt[workspace]

> Once you have run a [pipeline](pipeline.md) locally, you can launch a web app that displays detailed information about your pipeline. This app is built with the [Marimo](https://marimo.io/) Python notebook framework. For this to work, you will need to have the `dlt[hub]` package installed. Check installation instructions ![here](https://dlthub.com/docs/hub/getting-started/installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have run a [pipeline](pipeline.md) locally, you can launch a web app that displays detailed information about your pipeline. This app is built with the [Marimo](https://marimo.io/) Python notebook framework. For this to work, you will need to have the `dlt[hub]` package installed. 
```

:::tip
The dashboard works with all [destinations](destination.md) that are supported by [dataset interface](dataset-access/dataset.md). Vector databases are not supported at this moment. However, you can still inspect metadata such as run traces, schemas, and pipeline state.
:::

## Overview

> The Dashboard is a locally hosted application built on [Marimo](https://marimo.io/). It comes preconfigured with the key pipeline metadata and operational context you need to review pipeline health and validate data quality. 

Reviewer: it's dashboard everywhere, lowercase

With the Dashboard, you can:

1. Inspect pipeline metadata
2. Query data in the destination
3. Review traces and exceptions
4. Check the history of pipeline runs
5. Verify incremental loading behavior

You can also customize the Dashboard and create a personalized version tailored to your workflow.

![Dashboard overview](https://storage.googleapis.com/dlt-blog-images/dashboard-overview.png)

## Quick start

You need to install dlt workspace using the following command:
```sh

> pip install "dlt[hub]"

Reviewer: workspace

# Inspect your pipeline with the pipeline dashboard

Once you have run a pipeline locally, you can launch a web app that displays detailed information about your pipeline. This app is built with the Marimo Python notebook framework. For this to work, you will need to have the `dlt[workspace]` package installed.

:::tip

> The pipeline dashboard app works with all destinations that are supported by our dataset. Vector databases are generally unsupported at this point; however, you can still inspect metadata such as run traces, schemas, and pipeline state.

Author: ```suggestion
The dashboard works with all destinations that are supported by [dataset interface](dataset-access/dataset.md). Vector databases are not supported at this moment. However, you can still inspect metadata such as run traces, schemas, and pipeline state.
```

> ## Prerequisites

Author: I can't write a comment to `##Features` that is why I'm putting it here!

* Instead of `Features` let's use `Overview`

```
The Dashboard is a locally hosted application built on [Marimo](https://marimo.io/). It comes preconfigured with the key pipeline metadata and operational context you need to review pipeline health and validate data quality. 

With the Dashboard, you can:

1. Inspect pipeline metadata
2. Query data in the destination
3. Review traces and exceptions
4. Check the history of pipeline runs
5. Verify incremental loading behavior

You can also customize the Dashboard and create a personalized version tailored to your workflow.
```

> ## Prerequisites

Author: I don't think this is `## Prerequisites`. Let's use `## Quick start`

## Using the dashboard

The dashboard provides a visual interface to your [pipeline](pipeline.md)'s local working directory and its [destination](destination.md). It is designed to help you validate data quality and troubleshoot execution without writing custom SQL or inspection scripts.

The app automatically refreshes whenever a new local pipeline run is detected. You can switch between different pipelines on your machine using the dropdown menu in the top-right corner.

### Pipeline overview

> The Overview section serves as a health check for your pipeline. If a run fails, this is where dlt surfaces the exception details and stack traces. Review last executed to ensure the pipeline is running on the expected schedule or has recently completed a load.

Reviewer: link the Overview section (shouldn't it be lowercase?)

* The `state_version` shown here should generally match the `state_version` in the Pipeline Overview if the last run was successful.
* Click `Load and show remote state` to query the destination and retrieve this information.

### Schema explorer

The schema browser allows you to dive deep into your pipeline's (schemas)[https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/schema] and see all tables, columns, and type hints. This view is based on the dlt schema, the internal blueprint used to create and update tables in your destination.

When loading data for the first time, use this section to:

1. Click `Show child tables` to ensure that nested data is unnested successfully and at the required level.
2. Inspect the **type hints** specifically, making sure that timestamps and large numbers are captured in the right way.
3. Raw Schema as YAML can be exported and stored in your git repository as a reference for the dataset schema.

![Schema explorer](https://storage.googleapis.com/dlt-blog-images/dashboard-schema-explorer.png)

> ### Dataset Browser

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dataset browser
```

When you're loading your data for the first time, we suggest checking the following:

1. Click `Show child tables` to ensure that nested data is unnested successfully and at the required level.
2. Inspect the **type hints** specifically, making sure that timestamps and large numbers are captured in the right way.
3. Raw Schema as YAML can be exported and stored in your git repository as a reference for the dataset schema.

![Schema explorer](https://storage.googleapis.com/dlt-blog-images/dashboard-schema-explorer.png)

### Dataset Browser

The dataset browser allows you to query data from your destination and inspect the state of each of your resources, which contain information about their incremental status and other custom state values. Click the `Load row counts` button to refresh the record counts for all tables based on the current destination data.

![Dataset Browser](https://storage.googleapis.com/dlt-blog-images/dashboard-dataset-browser.png)

### Querying your Dataset

> Here you can query your data to analyze it. This is what a query on the fruitshop dataset looks like:

Author: Please, add note that it's working with any destinations even with the files, Iceberg tables, Delta tables, with remote and local destinations
